docs/apirequests.adoc, before:

== Requests documentation for YORC/TOSCA integration

This document provides a list and structure of request to start a data transfer with DLS. The minimal workflow currently defined in the project assumes that
the DLS part will be about moving data from a EUDAT service (B2SHARE) into a HPC through +ssh+.

=== Prerequisites ===
Host address with api e.g., +export DLS=http://HOST:PORT/api/v1/+

Also credentials +USER:PASS+ (which are sent as http authentication).

A full description of the airflow API can be found in https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html[Documentation].

A connection to B2SHARE instance needs to be set-up. This can be done either in manual fashion or with following request (please note that we use testing instance of B2SHARE):

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"connection_id": "default_b2share","conn_type":"https", "host": "/b2share-testing.fz-juelich.de", "schema":"https"}' \
   $DLS/connections
----

There should be an object created in B2SHARE, each object in B2SHARE is identified by a +id+, which needs to be passed to the DLS workflow as a parameter (see below).


=== Credentials handling [[credentials]]
Credentials needed to access SSH-based storages should be passed over to the pipelines (both for up- and download) as pipelines parameters. Basically each DLS pipelines can be extended by tasks to handle those parameters and convert them into connections that can be used in the remainings of the pipeline. The code for that can be found in <a href='dags/conn_deco.py'>+dags/conn_deco.py+</a>. 

==== Passing credentials directly ==== 
Following parameters are expected:

----
   host = params.get('host')
   port = params.get('port', 2222)
   user = params.get('login')
   key = params.get('key')
----
Those will be used to create a temporary connection (with randomized name). The connection will be deleted after the pipline run. 

==== Passing vault connection id ====
(not implemented yet)


=== Starting data transfer ===
To start a transfer following request needs to be sent it includes B2SHARE object id as a parameter. For testing purposes one can use +b38609df2b334ea296ea1857e568dbea+ which
includes one 100MB file. The target parameter is optional with default value +/tmp/+ and determines location to which the files from B2SHARE object will be uploaded.

The parameters should be passed along the credentials as described in <<credentials>>.

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"conf": {"oid": ID, "target": PATH}}' \
   $DLS/dags/taskflow_example/dagRuns
----




=== Checking status of a pipeline ===
----
curl -X GET -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" $DLS/dags/taskflow_example/dagRuns
----

=== Uploading example ===
To upload to B2SHARE use +dags/upload_example.py+ pipeline. 

Comparing to the download case, for the upload the b2share connection must include the authenitcation token in extra field. 

----
{"access_token": "foo"}
----

For information on how to generate access token, please refer to B2SHARE documenation: https://eudat.eu/services/userdoc/b2share-http-rest-api


Also connection to data catlog (with name +datacat+) needs to be defined in the DLS. 

The upload target is defined by parameter +mid+ which points to a metadata template in datacatalog. The metadata template should comprise following information: 

----
{
  "name": "registration",
  "url": "https://b2share-testing.fz-juelich.de/",
   "metadata": {
      "title":"Result of the computation",
      "creator_name": "eflows4HPC",
      "description": "Output registered by eflows4HPC DLS",
      "community": "a9217684-945b-4436-8632-cac271f894ed",
      "helmholtz centre": "Forschungszentrum Jülich",
      "open_access": "True"
   }
}
----

The values in the metadata field can be adjusted to the user needs. Once such a record is created in the data catalog, its 
identifier can be used as the value for +mid+ parameter of the upload pipeline. To find out more about how to create records in data catalog check https://datacatalog.fz-juelich.de/docs. 

An example upload template can be found at: https://datacatalog.fz-juelich.de/storage.html?type=storage_target&oid=71e863ac-aee6-4680-a57c-de318530b71e Thus the +mid+ = 71e863ac-aee6-4680-a57c-de318530b71e. 


The upload piplenes requires input parameter +source+ which defines input directory. Similarly to the download case SSH credentials need to be passed to the execution (see <<credentials>> for details) (not included in the example).

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"conf": {"mid": MID, "source": PATH}}' \
   $DLS/dags/upload_example/dagRuns
----



=== Comments ===
I could image that a name of DLS pipeline (+taskflow_example+) can change and needs to be passed as parameter to YORC.

Commit message:

Update apirequests.adoc to include vault credenitals

docs/apirequests.adoc, after:

== Requests documentation for YORC/TOSCA integration

This document provides a list and structure of request to start a data transfer with DLS. The minimal workflow currently defined in the project assumes that
the DLS part will be about moving data from a EUDAT service (B2SHARE) into a HPC through +ssh+.

=== Prerequisites ===
Host address with api e.g., +export DLS=http://HOST:PORT/api/v1/+

Also credentials +USER:PASS+ (which are sent as http authentication).

A full description of the airflow API can be found in https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html[Documentation].

A connection to B2SHARE instance needs to be set-up. This can be done either in manual fashion or with following request (please note that we use testing instance of B2SHARE):

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"connection_id": "default_b2share","conn_type":"https", "host": "/b2share-testing.fz-juelich.de", "schema":"https"}' \
   $DLS/connections
----

There should be an object created in B2SHARE, each object in B2SHARE is identified by a +id+, which needs to be passed to the DLS workflow as a parameter (see below).


=== Credentials handling [[credentials]]
Credentials needed to access SSH-based storages should be passed over to the pipelines (both for up- and download) as pipelines parameters. Basically each DLS pipelines can be extended by tasks to handle those parameters and convert them into connections that can be used in the remainings of the pipeline. The code for that can be found in <a href='dags/conn_deco.py'>+dags/conn_deco.py+</a>. 

==== Passing credentials directly ==== 
Following parameters are expected:

----
   host = params.get('host')
   port = params.get('port', 2222)
   user = params.get('login')
   key = params.get('key')
----
Those will be used to create a temporary connection (with randomized name). The connection will be deleted after the pipline run. 

==== Passing vault connection id ====
Credentials from vault can be used to access resources. This is achieved by passing a id of the creentials in vault to the respecitve pipeline. The parameter is ```vault_id``` and crednetials are located in the vault defined in admin/connections/my_vault. The location of the credentials in vault is defined as follows: ```/secret/data/ssh-credentials/<vault-id-value>```


=== Starting data transfer ===
To start a transfer following request needs to be sent it includes B2SHARE object id as a parameter. For testing purposes one can use +b38609df2b334ea296ea1857e568dbea+ which
includes one 100MB file. The target parameter is optional with default value +/tmp/+ and determines location to which the files from B2SHARE object will be uploaded.

The parameters should be passed along the credentials as described in <<credentials>>.

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"conf": {"oid": ID, "target": PATH}}' \
   $DLS/dags/taskflow_example/dagRuns
----




=== Checking status of a pipeline ===
----
curl -X GET -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" $DLS/dags/taskflow_example/dagRuns
----

=== Uploading example ===
To upload to B2SHARE use +dags/upload_example.py+ pipeline. 

Comparing to the download case, for the upload the b2share connection must include the authenitcation token in extra field. 

----
{"access_token": "foo"}
----

For information on how to generate access token, please refer to B2SHARE documenation: https://eudat.eu/services/userdoc/b2share-http-rest-api


Also connection to data catlog (with name +datacat+) needs to be defined in the DLS. 

The upload target is defined by parameter +mid+ which points to a metadata template in datacatalog. The metadata template should comprise following information: 

----
{
  "name": "registration",
  "url": "https://b2share-testing.fz-juelich.de/",
   "metadata": {
      "title":"Result of the computation",
      "creator_name": "eflows4HPC",
      "description": "Output registered by eflows4HPC DLS",
      "community": "a9217684-945b-4436-8632-cac271f894ed",
      "helmholtz centre": "Forschungszentrum Jülich",
      "open_access": "True"
   }
}
----

The values in the metadata field can be adjusted to the user needs. Once such a record is created in the data catalog, its 
identifier can be used as the value for +mid+ parameter of the upload pipeline. To find out more about how to create records in data catalog check https://datacatalog.fz-juelich.de/docs. 

An example upload template can be found at: https://datacatalog.fz-juelich.de/storage.html?type=storage_target&oid=71e863ac-aee6-4680-a57c-de318530b71e Thus the +mid+ = 71e863ac-aee6-4680-a57c-de318530b71e. 


The upload piplenes requires input parameter +source+ which defines input directory. Similarly to the download case SSH credentials need to be passed to the execution (see <<credentials>> for details) (not included in the example).

----
curl -X POST -u USER:PASS -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
   --data '{"conf": {"mid": MID, "source": PATH}}' \
   $DLS/dags/upload_example/dagRuns
----



=== Comments ===
I could image that a name of DLS pipeline (+taskflow_example+) can change and needs to be passed as parameter to YORC.
